[C#] Implement new Concept Exercise: nullability (#992)
exercism/v3: languages/csharp/exercises/concept/nullability/.docs/instructions.md

> In this exercise you'll be writing code to helping printing name

Reviewer: Love how concise this introductory text now is! Excellent work.

badges for factory employees.

> Employees have an id, name and department name. Badge labels are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Employees have an ID, name and department name. Badge labels are
```

> Employees have an id, a name and a department name. Badge labels are

Reviewer: Small abbreviation:

```suggestion
Employees have an id, name and department name. Badge labels are
```

> formatted as follows: `"[id] - [name] - [DEPARTMENT]"`

Reviewer: I like how you've managed to make it clear that the department is in uppercase! I wonder if we should also capitalize the name itself, which would seem to make sense for the badge. Then people can also see the difference between calling a method on a nullable and non-nullable strings and are probably even more likely to make the null-reference mistake :) What do you think?

Author: I started doing that... but 

1. we already need to call a method on a non nullable string on the `PrintLabel` method...
2. if all strings are upper case, then one can just make the whole string upper case, it's easier to explain, and easier to implement

Reviewer: Oh yes, excellent arguments! Let's leave it as is.

> ### 1. Generate the badge label from employee properties

Reviewer: We could shorten this to:

```suggestion
### 1. Generate an employee's badge label
```

> Writing a static method called `Badge.Label()` to compute the string
> to be printed on the badge:

Reviewer: Slightly more concise and in line with how [existing exercises phrase things](https://github.com/exercism/v3/blob/master/languages/csharp/exercises/concept/strings/.docs/instructions.md#1-get-message-from-a-log-line):

```suggestion
Implement the `Badge.Label()` method to return an employee's badge label:
```

Also, people won't be writing the method but implementing it, as there already is a stub.

> and by family name is `Payne`, my badge name is: `ERNEST JOHNNY

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and my family name is `Payne`, then my badge name is: `ERNEST JOHNNY
```

```csharp
Badge.Label(734, "Ernest Johnny Payne", "Strategic Communication");
// => "[734] - Ernest Johnny Payne - STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION"
```

> ### 2. Deal with the optional parameters on the badge labels

Reviewer: Maybe short this to (parameters is an implementation detail):

```suggestion
### 2. Handle the optional parts of a badge label
```

> The department name is optional. If someone has no department, just

Reviewer: Could you make this into a separate task? As we have task-specific hints, we can then point to particular resources for a task, in this case the `??` operator.

> The id and department name are optional. If someone does not have an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ID and department name are optional. If someone does not have an
```

> The ID and department name are optional. If someone does not have an

Reviewer: Could you add an example of what a call would look like and what it would return?

```csharp
Badge.Label(null, "Ernest Johnny Payne", null);
// => "Ernest Johnny Payne - GUEST"
```

> The ID and department name are optional. If someone does not have an

Reviewer: I like the explanation!

> id, do not print this part of the label.  If someone has no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ID, do not print this part of the label.  If someone has no
```

> employee. You will then compute the string to be print on the name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
employee. You will then compute the string to be printed on the name
```

> ### 2. Word wrap the label text so it fits on a badge

Reviewer: The label text doesn't necessarily have to be wrapped. Maybe:

```suggestion
### 2. Convert the label text to fit on a badge with a given width
```

> Writing a static method called `Badge.PrintLabel()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement the `Badge.PrintLabel()` method to return an employee's badge label that can fit on a badge with a given width:
```

> ### 2. Convert the label text to fit on a badge with a given width

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Convert the label text to fit on a badge with a given width
```

```csharp
Badge.PrintLabel("[734] - Ernest Johnny Payne - STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION", 30);
// => "[734] - Ernest Johnny Payne - \nSTRATEGIC COMMUNICATION"
```

> The width is optional, so if it is not provided, just return the

Reviewer: Could you make this a separate task?

Author: Do you mean  adding a third method? 

It's weird to split a method into two tasks since if it is a method it does one thing, not two. I would prefer changing the wording to imply that the width is optional (just like on the first task). 

**PS1:** To me it's weird to have too many "tasks" on an exercise, since it's something that only exists on the docs... at least that's not how I am used to work on exercises (maybe that's a difference between v2 and v3 that I am not aware of), but when doing v2 exercises, I usually read the spec, then work on the tests, one by one.... 

**PS2:** Sometimes I think It'd better to do something more than just returning the string as is when no `maxWidth` is given... for example, we could split the string fields and then make sure it still fits on the given width if any. It's just that if the method does nothing if no width is given, there's no point in calling the method.

```
[734]
Ernest Johnny Payne
STRATEGIC COMMU
NICATION
```

Another idea, we could simply put it in a simple HTML document...

```
<html>
<body>
<em>
[734] - Ernest Johnny Payne
STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION
</em>
</body>
</html>
```

Reviewer: > To me it's weird to have too many "tasks" on an exercise, since it's something that only exists on the docs... at least that's not how I am used to work on exercises (maybe that's a difference between v2 and v3 that I am not aware of), but when doing v2 exercises, I usually read the spec, then work on the tests, one by one....

This is indeed something that is going to be very different in v3, as we'll have in-browser coding support, which we'll expect will be quite popular. The in-browser coding experience won't show the tests to the student. It will show test results (assertion messages), but it won't show the actual test code. Splitting up things into different tasks can therefore help students focus on specific bits of the implementation. Does that help explain why I prefer splitting things up?

Reviewer: > Sometimes I think It'd better to do something more than just returning the string as is when no maxWidth is given... for example, we could split the string fields and then make sure it still fits on the given width if any. It's just that if the method does nothing if no width is given, there's no point in calling the method.

I do agree with this, although I'm not sure I like the suggested functionality better. I don't think it makes sense to have one method return a label string without newlines and then later on split it again.

Author: > Does that help explain why I prefer splitting things up?

ok, I will add another task, but I assume I do not need to split the method,

Author: > I do agree with this, although I'm not sure I like the suggested functionality better. I don't think it makes sense to have one method return a label string without newlines and then later on split it again.

Yes, I am not happy either with my suggestion... I will try to find something better... I just want to avoid the 

```csharp
if (maxWidth == null) return label;
```

Reviewer: > ok, I will add another task, but I assume I do not need to split the method,

Correct.

> Yes, I am not happy either with my suggestion... I will try to find something better... I just want to avoid the

Agreed. What if we changed things around to make the ID optional instead of the max width?

```csharp
string Label(int id?, string name, string? department)
{
    if (id == null)
       return $"{name} - {department ?? "GUEST"}";

    return $"[{id}] - {name} - {department ?? "GUEST"}";
}
```

And then the `PrintLabel` method could always take the max width as a regular, non-nullable int.

Maybe something like this could work? It would mean you get the keep the max width limiting functionality, which _does_ make a lot of sense from a story viewpoint and we get rid of the `if (label == null) return label` bit.

Author: Yes I like it :)
Then I will need to change the tasks too, I'd prefer something like:

1. Implement `Label` as if parameters are never `null`
2. Deal with the `null` `id` and `department`
3. Implement `PrintLabel`

It will have an increasing level of difficulty, which  will be better than the 3 tasks we have right now.

Reviewer: Yes! I like what you've suggested! Sounds great. Sorry for the churn on this, but nullability _is_ a difficulty thing to get right. Which is of course also why they added the nullablility features to C# 8 :)

Author: Hi, just pushed a new version... the problem now is: the method `PrintLabel` has nothing to do with nullability anymore...

What about adding nullable prefix and a suffix that the student needs to concatenate to the string (if present) before wrapping?

Author: @ErikSchierboom

Author: Just pushed a comment implementing that. Just added an optional `prefix` to be added before print.

> **PS**: Let us assume that the all parametres are optional, i.e. an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**PS**: Let us assume that the all parameters are optional, i.e. an
```

> the system. Besides, if someone forgets to configure a proper font

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the system. Additionally, if someone forgets to configure a proper font
```

In this exercise you'll be writing code to helping printing name
badges factory employees.

Employees have a first and family name, and optionally a middle name
family name. An employee's badge consists of a single line with the employee's first, middle and family name on it (in that order), with the name parts separated by a single space.

> For examle, if my name is `Ernest Johnny Payne`, it should appear as

Author: Yes, I like the idea of saying explicitly which part is a first/middle/family name, but I'd not add examples of exceptional cases as: 1. there is a sentence somewhere talking about them, and 2. I personally like when these things are clarified on tests.

> In this exercise you'll be writing code to helping printing name

Reviewer: Could you have this file correspond to the format used for the other C# exercise (see [an example](https://github.com/exercism/v3/blob/master/languages/csharp/exercises/concept/strings/.docs/instructions.md)). Concretely, this means that the file is divided into two parts:

1. The first part is general and describes the theme/context.
1. The second part describes the individual tasks. Each has a section header and an example that shows what it returns for some input.

The first part, you've got that covered. The second part does not correspond to the format used in other exercises. Could you update that? Also, consider the suggestion below about restructuring the text for the first part a bit.

badges for factory employees.

> Employees have an id, a name and a department name.  For example, if
> my id is `734`, my name is `Ernest Johnny Payne`, and my department is
> `Strategic Communication` my badge name is: `[734] - Ernest Johnny
> Payne - STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION`.

Reviewer: I was thinking that maybe we can draw inspiration from the [strings exercise](https://github.com/exercism/v3/blob/master/languages/csharp/exercises/concept/strings/.docs/instructions.md) and just specify the format. That way, we can lose the example here and use those values for the sample code that is accompanied

```suggestion
Employees have an ID, name and a department. Badge labels are formatted as follows: `"[<ID>] - <NAME> - [DEPARTMENT]"`.
```

Maybe we can the first task _not_ have the uppercase requirement? That way, we can have multiple tasks and gradually introduce the null-reference problem. In fact, not having the requirement at first will make it more likely that students _will_ encounter the null-reference, so that is great :)

Your task will be writing a static method called `Badge.Label`. It
will take as input parameters the id, name and department of an
employee. You will then compute the string to be printed on the
badge. 

Notice that you'll need to include dashes between words when

> applicable and write the department in UPPER CASE.

Reviewer: I think you can safely remove this as the above suggestion just specifies the format.

In this exercise you'll be working on a simple helper class that manipulates nullable values.

### 1. Detect null values

Write a static method called `IsNull` to detect if a string is `null` or not.

``` csharp
Nullable.IsNull("hello") // should return `false`
Nullable.IsNull(null)    // should return `true`
```

### 2. Letting the runtime detect null values

The C# runtime is able to detect when code calls a method from a `null` value. 
It throws a `NullReferenceException`.

Write a static method called `TotalLength` to sum the lengths of two strings passed as parameters.

> It should throw `NullReferenceException` when one of the strings is `null`.

Reviewer: I understand why you added this test, but I think that in this case it does not make much sense to throw a `NullReferenceException`, as that is something you'll never do in any production code. Perhaps it would make sense not to have a separate task for the `NullReferenceException`, but for it to be sort of automatically included in a task similar to the next task, where one has to deal with `null` values. Students failing to do proper `null` checking will find a `NullReferenceException` being thrown. If we mention what happens when calling a member on a `null` value in the `introduction.md` document, I think that's fine for learning purposes, We can also add hints to the `hints.md` how to fix any `NullReferenceException`s.

``` csharp
Nullable.TotalLength("abc", "def"); // returns `6`
Nullable.TotalLength(null, "def");  // throws a `NullReferenceException`
```

### 3. Dealing with null values

Write a static method called `TotalLengthSmart` to sum the lengths of two strings passed as parameters.
If one of the passed strings is `null`, use `0` as its length.

``` csharp
Nullable.TotalLengthSmart("abc", "def"); // returns `6`
Nullable.TotalLengthSmart(null, "def");  // returns `3`
```

**BONUS:** Try to write this method without using `if`s.

### 4. Nullable reference types

You may have noticed this warning when you compile your code or run your tests.

Fix it.

`Cannot convert null literal to non-nullable reference type.`

> ### 5. TODO: null forgiving operator

Reviewer: It might be hard to work out a task for this operator. I'm fine with not explicitly teaching _all_ operators, as long as we mention them in the `introduction.md` and `after.md` documents. So don't feel the need to create tasks for all the operators.

> ### 5. TODO: null forgiving operator

Reviewer: Will there also be tasks on nullable value types?
